# Unemployment statistics by ethnicity, gender and regions in the UK from 2004 to 2018
# Random forest & Gradient boosting
**[Official notebook](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/Janette-Le/Python1/blob/main/ABC.ipynb)**

Data source: https://data.gov.uk/dataset/fe6c83aa-62aa-4a8c-94cc-225f47287225/unemployment-by-ethnicity

<p align="justify">As we may all know, by the end of January 2020, Britain officially exited Europe. Thousands of politicians, economists and socialist forecasted that this event will create tremendous effects (positive and negative) on the society, labor market and the economy for both Britain and Europe.
There are many factors that affect the unemployment rate; on the macroeconomic perspective, it may be the volatility of the economy or the intervention of the government; from the microeconomic perspective, it may depend on age, gender, education level of the employee and local regional economy. In this capstone project, I will strive to determine the unemployment rate in UK over the last 15 years, as well as studying which  demographic factors have affected unemployment in the UK in the last 15 years.

This project is my personal final work for my Python class. As requests by my professor, he asked everyone to look for a raw dataset that is not available on Kaggle's, so I picked a dataset on data.gov.uk to execute my assignment. To prevent me from manually cleansing data columns by columns, I defined some functions in the Module file. These functions are alternative ways to save time when cleaning raw datasets, as well as sharpen algorithm logical sense. All directions and details are officially expressed on [Report](https://github.com/Janette-Le/Python-1/blob/main/Report.pdf) while executing code is in [Python scripts](https://github.com/Janette-Le/Python-1/blob/main/HoangUyen_Le_CapstoneProject.ipynb) file. For visualization supports, you can open my presentation on the [Slide](https://github.com/Janette-Le/Python-1/blob/main/Slide.pptx) file to have a more comprehensive view about my work. </p>
